---
slug: potential_quantum_computing
title: The Untapped Potential of Quantum Computing
date: April 25, 2021
author: Pranav Ramesh
author_title: Technepreneur & blogger
author_url: https://github.com/pr28416
author_image_url: https://media-exp1.licdn.com/dms/image/C4D03AQE8US7zv3uUhQ/profile-displayphoto-shrink_400_400/0/1619024957277?e=1626912000&v=beta&t=cDgil4bLuNR5N8cVLnZHlmfiHcZ_ad0HKC2KsPbONfM
tags: [quantum computing]
---

Quantum computing functions by using qubits to represent values within datasets, instead of bits in binary code (0 and 1). Qubits are combined simultaneously through “quantum superposition”, merging 0 and 1 into a quick calculation that could take years for regular computers. The intended purpose of quantum computing is to process numerical datasets to perform difficult mathematical calculations in short amounts of time. These computations are executed simultaneously, such as factoring large numbers in parallel.

One beneficial effect of quantum computing on the economy is that its ability to compare and contrast numerical datasets simultaneously results in the optimal analysis of stock portfolios in parallel with one another, and better financial decision-making by investors allows for determination of the long-run and short-run effects of trading shares of certain companies within the stock market. Additionally, quantum computing’s emergence in the United States would allow the nation to become more competitive in terms of technological advancement, which in macroeconomics is a major part of ensuring sustained economic growth.

However, one harmful economic effect of quantum computing is that current versions of these machines can cost millions of dollars to build and many can experience all sorts of errors that result from interference with factors such as outside temperature, electromagnetic waves, and radioactivity. Therefore, firms that do build and/or use quantum computers must employ cost-benefit analysis (with the question of whether the benefits of quantum computing outweigh the monetary costs) to determine if it is in their best interest to invest in using a quantum computing machine in the long term.

Companies and agencies such as Google and NASA are required to determine where they must allocate their financial resources - especially in the case of the latter, which is a government agency and therefore depends on federal funding - and they may not place quantum computing at a high priority due to the extremely high costs of construction, management, and maintenance of quantum computing machines. Additionally, one potential future data security concern that exists regarding quantum computing is that it would be able to use its complex mathematical problem-solving abilities in order to break cryptographic algorithms and widely-used methods of encryption for communications and storage. Certain everyday machines have the ability to break certain encryption and decryption algorithms through ciphers, procedures that convert the algorithms into code. Given that the most common way regular machines break codes is by sequentially going through every possibility, it could take years of calculations.

However, with quantum computers simultaneously comparing all possibilities and evaluating their results (assuming that future versions are mostly invulnerable to errors), it is possible that encryption and decryption algorithms could one day be broken by these machines. Such techniques could allow non-state actors to manipulate political, economic, and social data gathered by governments around the world, as well as break through secure digital transaction systems such as cryptocurrency.
